Release Notes for xGPU v0.0.1
-----------------------------

Overview:

xGPU is a library for performing the cross-multiplication step of the
FX correlator algorithm, which is popular for radio astronomy signal
processing.

Software Compatibility:

The library has been tested under Linux (Ubuntu 10.04 and 10.10) and
Mac OS X using release 4.0 of the CUDA toolkit.  Default compilation
creates a 32-bit binary, so 64-bit systems will require 32-bit c and
c++ libraries installed for cross-compilation (gcc and g++ multilib).

Hardward Compatibility:

For a list of supported devices see,

http://www.nvidia.com/object/cuda_learn_products.html

While this library will run on pre-Fermi GPUs with appropriate changes
to the Makefile, note that the kernels make Fermi-specific
optimizations and so will likely lead to sub-standard performance on
sm1.x CUDA architectures.

Using the Library:

This library has been designed to be interfaced with other parts of an
FX correlator pipeline, and so not much can be achieved in isolation.
A simple test program "cuda_correlator.cu" is included which performs
cross-multiplication on the host and the device and verifies the
device obtained the correct answer.  The many options regarding number
of stations, frequency channels etc. are set in the top of this file.

Benchmarking Performance:

xGPU includes an additional benchmarking utility: CUBE - CUDA
BEnchmarking.  This uses C-preprocessor directive to obtain arithmetic
throughput and device memory bandwidth performance.  To invoke a
benchmarking run, one simply has to execute the "bench" script.  This
will perform four runs of the test.  The first two of these are
concerned with counting all flops and transfers performed by the
kernels, and measuring the time taken for each of these steps.  The
latter two are concerened with measuring the asynchronous performance
of the device<->host transfers.  By default the results are printed to
stdout, though they are output to file (cube_benchmark.log and
cube_benchmark.csv).

Acknowledging xGPU:

If you find this code useful in your work, please cite:

M. A. Clark, P. C. La Plante, and L. J. Greenhill, "Accelerating Radio
Astronomy Cross-Correlation with Graphics Processing units",
[arXiv:1107.4264 [astro-ph]].

Authors:

Michael Clark (Harvard University)
Paul La Plante (Loyola University Maryland)
Lincoln Greenhill (Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics)
